In this lesson we will learn about heading elements and the role that they play in giving our web pages
structure and creating hierarchy amongst our content in front of you is an example page that I've created
for this lesson for just a moment let's pretend that this is not a web page.
Let's pretend that it isn't written in HVM.
And let's instead just pretend that this is a printed page in a book.
Now let's give ourselves an exercise let's try to identify the different sections that make up this
page.
And let's really pay attention to the contextual clues that headings give us when trying to identify
sections.
So for example the first section that I would identify would be this paragraph.
This seems like the intro section because it sits directly under the largest heading if we scroll down
a bit I would then say the next overall section is all of this content because we can see that the next
set of largest headings on the page are key point and key point.
And this is the end of the page.
So to me this seems like a section that is made up of a subsection and a subsection and then this is
the other main section.
Very quickly let's review the entire page again.
So I would say that this is the intro section I would say that this is a main section and I would say
that this is another main section.
Now the only clue that I'm going off of when trying to determine what's a section is the headings.
Authors of physical books do this all the time.
They use different levels of headings to create hierarchy to keep the content organized so it's easier
to digest and understand.
Well web pages are no different.
Web developers use headings to keep content organized.
So let's take a jump into our text editor and you can see that our page begins with a heading level
1.
So that's this and we've covered this in earlier lessons you've seen H-1 many times but I want to talk
about the way that we create hierarchy.
So you'll also remember from one of our earliest lessons that I mentioned that H-2 is a slightly less
important heading than in H-1 and we can see that reflected.
Key point is smaller than this age one subject heading.
But then if we go down a bit we can see that minor point is using an H-3 which is right here and we
can see that very minor point is using an H for which is here and then obviously if this key point used
in H-2 down at the bottom this key point also uses an H2.
Overall this page has used four different heading levels.
One two three and four.
Now you may recall that in an earlier lesson I mentioned that HTML offers H-1 all the way to eight six
six different heading levels that you can use to create structure and organization in your pages.
Now even though H M L offers H-1 all the way through age 6 that doesn't mean we need to use all six
different heading levels.
In fact we will learn in future lessons that the most recent version of HTML h team L5 encourages us
to structure our pages in a way that we will probably only ever use H-1 elements but we will cross that
bridge when we come to it.
So until we learn about different ways to organize sections in our pages I want you to use as many different
heading levels as your content demands because coding patterns and best practices change over time.
But using headings to organize content that's timeless.
That's why I encourage you earlier to think of this as a printed page in a book.
The key is to simply create organized easy to digest content.
I'll see you in the next lesson